- [Instructor] There's a lot of code
that isn't super important for learning the operator itself
but that we're going to need for this course.
Now, instead of having you watch me type the code
and you trying to keep along,
what I've done is I've provided all of the scaffolding code
for you in the exercise files.
And instead of having you just blindly accept that code,
I want to walk through it, and explain what we're doing
so you can continue to formulate in your mind the structure
of the operator while at the same time saving your fingers
and your ears to having to listen to me type
through all of that code.
So I'd like you to jump into your IDE
and we're going to start in our objstore_controller
in the cninf controller's directory.
The first thing that I want you to notice here
is on line 35, I've created a constant
with a format name for a configMapName,
and you'll understand why we're doing this here
in a little bit.
On line 41, I've added an instance
of the S3 service to our ObjStoreReconciler.
This is sort of how I deal with clients
that are used in more than one place
and I thought I'd bring that here
even though this is the only place
that we're using the client.
I want to create it once
and then use it everywhere that I can.
Now, the next one is a marker
that we've added here on line 47,
and this one's really important to understand.
So we are going to give our controller
and any operations that come out of our controller access
to resources called ConfigMaps out of the core group.
And of course, we've all used ConfigMaps.
It's a standard part of Kubernetes.
But if we don't put this marker here,
our controller, as it's running,
will actually not have access to manipulate ConfigMaps.
This is the same way for any resource that you want to add.
You'll see that by default, Kubebuilder built us markers
for our object stores
if we need to add anything else down the road.
And if we're going to extend this use case,
adding things like secrets might make sense here
or other values within Kubernetes.
But for now, we're just going to stick with ConfigMaps
'cause that's all that we're writing code for.
So now I want to jump down to the bottom of this file,
line 83 is where we're going to start.
So I have created a method here called createResources.
And it's going to take a context
and an instance of our objStore.
And its whole purpose is is to manage the creation
of the resources that we need based on our CR.
So we're going to start by setting our state to creating
and then once we have the state of creating,
we're going to validate that we can update that status.
Once the status is updated,
we are then going to call into the AWS API
and create our bucket.
And we're going to do that creation
and then as we get down to line 99,
we're going to wait until that bucket exists.
So once the bucket exists,
then we're able to proceed.
And once we do that,
we are then going to create a ConfigMap,
and we're going to use a pretty standard pattern here.
So we're going to create a data map
and that data map is going to contain two elements,
a bucketName, which comes from the spec of our objStore
and it's the name that we provided the bucket.
If you look back above,
that's what we used to create that bucket.
And then we are going to use the location
and the location came back from the create bucket call.
Then we'll create that ConfigMap itself.
We're going to specify the TypeMeta of ConfigMap
as the kind and v1 as the APIVersion.
And then in the ObjectMeta,
we are going to create the name
of this ConfigMap to match the name
of our objStore, so of the CR itself
and what namespace it lives in.
And then we will provide the data on line 116.
So then we're going to create that ConfigMap.
And once we are done with all that,
we will modify our objStore
to be a state of created
and we'll update the status of that.
So at this point,
the CR itself should have a state of created
after having gone through the creating phase.
Now, on line 130, I kind of have undone all of this.
So we are going to do a delete resources
and in our delete,
we are going to delete the bucket first
and we're not going to actually wait for the bucket to delete
because it's less important here
to make sure that it's deleted.
There's always reasons it may not.
So we're just going to call delete and leave it alone.
Now then we will find our ConfigMap
and we have to find it by building an instance
of an object key.
So the only way to find things
with the dynamic client is with this object key,
which is a mixture of namespace and name,
and we are going to do that
using the objStore name once again
and the namespace that the objStore lives in
that will build us a object key
that we can use to call into the client
to get the ConfigMap.
Once we have the ConfigMap,
we will delete that ConfigMap.
And at that point, we are done.
You may ask why don't we modify the status again?
Because there's nothing left to view.
Once it's marked for deletion,
there's no reason to update the status, it's gone.
It will never show up.
So we're not going to mess with the deleted status
but that's the gist of most of this code.
So let's jump into main.
In main, we have a couple changes that we made,
specifically around how we are going to build the client.
So let's start here on line 86.
So we're going to do an os.LookupEnv
and this is important when we're running this later.
We're going to look up the environment.
From the environment, we're going to get the AWS access key
and the AWS secret.
We are then going to create
new static credentials from those.
So as opposed to loading them from AWS credentials,
we want to build them in code
because we will not have a credentials file
on our Kubernetes clusters.
And then we just create an instance of the session
and then a new instance of S3 on line 103
to pass into our controller creation
such that we now have a client in our controller.
And that's the gist of all of our scaffolding code.